content/authors/admin/_index.md, before:

---
bio: I am a Ph.D. candidate in Political Science at the University of Utah and a National Institute of Justice LEADS scholar. I study policing and criminal justice policy. I am particularly interested in public perceptions of police use-of-force and the criminal justice system, investigative techniques in sexual assault cases, and crime deterrence policy.
education:
  courses:
  - course: PhD Candidate in Political Science
    institution: University of Utah
    year: 2024
  - course: MA in Forensic Psychology
    institution: University of North Dakota
    year: 2016
  - course: BSc in Criminal Justice
    institution: Weber State University
    year: 2004
email: ""
highlight_name: false
interests:
- Policing
- Criminal Justice Policy
- Bayesian Statistics
- Text Analytics
organizations:
- name: University of Utah, Department of Political Science
  url: https://poli-sci.utah.edu/
role: Ph.D. Candidate
social:
- icon: envelope
  icon_pack: fas
  link: /#contact
- display:
    header: true
  icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  label: Follow me on Twitter
  link: https://twitter.com/morty_s_
- icon: graduation-cap
  icon_pack: fas
  link: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ypvpo1gAAAAJ&hl=en
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/smourtgos
superuser: true
title: Scott M. Mourtgos
---

Scott M. Mourtgos is an incoming (Fall 2024) Assistant Professor in the Department of Criminology & Criminal Justice at the University of South Carolina. His applied research focuses on policing and criminal justice policy. In particular, he is interested in public perceptions of police use-of-force, crime deterrence policies, police personnel issues, and the application of Bayesian statistics in criminal justice research. He has over twenty peer-reviewed publications on these and related topics, and his work has been published in the top general interest journals of both criminal justice and public administration, including Criminology, Justice Quarterly, and Public Administration Review. He is committed to the goal of marrying police practice and high-quality scientific evidence, an aim that is supported by his appointment as a 2020 NIJ LEADS Scholar. He also serves on the Research Advisory Board for the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF), is an affiliate of the Police Staffing Observatory at Michigan State University, and serves on the editorial boards of Journal of Criminal Justice and Police Practice & Research: An International Journal.

His public-facing communication has appeared in multiple written, radio, and podcast outlets. He is a past doctoral fellow of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences (2022), and an FBI National Academy graduate (Session 280), having served in various capacities in policing for two decades, including as a police executive.

{{< icon name="download" pack="fas" >}} Download his {{< staticref "media/Mourtgos_CV.pdf" "newtab" >}}CV{{< /staticref >}}.

For inquiries, please contact Scott at <i class="fas fa-envelope"></i> [smourtgos@gmail.com](mailto:smourtgos@gmail.com).

Commit message:

Update to incoming professor and clean up icons

content/authors/admin/_index.md, after:

---
bio: I am a Ph.D. candidate in Political Science at the University of Utah and a National Institute of Justice LEADS scholar. I study policing and criminal justice policy. I am particularly interested in public perceptions of police use-of-force and the criminal justice system, investigative techniques in sexual assault cases, and crime deterrence policy.
education:
  courses:
  - course: PhD Candidate in Political Science
    institution: University of Utah
    year: 2024
  - course: MA in Forensic Psychology
    institution: University of North Dakota
    year: 2016
  - course: BSc in Criminal Justice
    institution: Weber State University
    year: 2004
email: ""
highlight_name: false
interests:
- Policing
- Criminal Justice Policy
- Bayesian Statistics
- Text Analytics
organizations:
- name: University of South Carolina, Department of Criminology and Criminal Justice
  url: https://sc.edu/study/colleges_schools/artsandsciences/criminology_and_criminal_justice/
role: Assistant Professor (Incoming)
social:
- display:
    header: true
  icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  label: Follow me on Twitter
  link: https://twitter.com/smourtgos
- icon: graduation-cap
  icon_pack: fas
  link: https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=ypvpo1gAAAAJ&hl=en
- icon: github
  icon_pack: fab
  link: https://github.com/smourtgos
superuser: true
title: Scott M. Mourtgos
---

Scott M. Mourtgos is an incoming (Fall 2024) Assistant Professor in the Department of Criminology & Criminal Justice at the University of South Carolina. His applied research focuses on policing and criminal justice policy. In particular, he is interested in public perceptions of police use-of-force, crime deterrence policies, police personnel issues, and the application of Bayesian statistics in criminal justice research. He has over twenty peer-reviewed publications on these and related topics, and his work has been published in the top general interest journals of both criminal justice and public administration, including Criminology, Justice Quarterly, and Public Administration Review. He is committed to the goal of marrying police practice and high-quality scientific evidence, an aim that is supported by his appointment as a 2020 NIJ LEADS Scholar. He also serves on the Research Advisory Board for the Police Executive Research Forum (PERF), is an affiliate of the Police Staffing Observatory at Michigan State University, and serves on the editorial boards of Journal of Criminal Justice and Police Practice & Research: An International Journal.

His public-facing communication has appeared in multiple written, radio, and podcast outlets. He is a past doctoral fellow of the Academy of Criminal Justice Sciences (2022), and an FBI National Academy graduate (Session 280), having served in various capacities in policing for two decades, including as a police executive.

{{< icon name="download" pack="fas" >}} Download his {{< staticref "media/Mourtgos_CV.pdf" "newtab" >}}CV{{< /staticref >}}.

For inquiries, please contact Scott at <i class="fas fa-envelope"></i>  [smourtgos@gmail.com](mailto:smourtgos@gmail.com).
